

This is Africa offers travel insurance through nib and if you book through us you will automatically receive a 20% discount. The online process is simple and you can save up to hundreds of dollars!

Nib understands the importance of helping people access insurance products and services suitable for every travel adventure; from planning and experiencing, to returning home safely.

You can choose the plan that you think best suits the kind of holiday you’re taking and the level of cover you need – from basic cover through to comprehensive, multi-trip, domestic and international plans.

nib can provide cover for many things that could go wrong when you travel, including:

    Having your trip or flights cancelled
    Accidental lost luggage or having it stolen
    Suffering a medical or dental emergency overseas
    Getting sick or injured overseas, even when playing amateur sports, and more

nib travel insurance also includes automatic cover for a range of existing medical conditions and the ability to apply to cover some other conditions for an additional premium (which may be significant) and increased excess.

24/7 Emergency medical support

Our 24/7 Emergency Assistance team provides emergency assistance for our customers worldwide. Our experienced specialists can be contacted by telephone 24 hours a day, 7 days a week to help you in the event of an emergency and to liaise on your behalf with our in-house medical team.

Phone: 1300 555 019 (within Australia)
Phone: +61 3 8523 2800 (outside of Australia)
Email: travelassist@nib.com.au

 For a quote, please follow these steps:

    Click on the logo below and follow the link to the website (some computers require you to right mouse click then select ‘open hyperlink’)
    Enter your information for a quick quote

 

 

 

This is Africa Pty Ltd, ABN 32606195895 is a distributor of nib Travel Services (Australia) Pty Ltd (nib), ABN 81 115 932 173, AFSL 308461 and receives a commission for nib products purchased through This is Africa Pty Ltd. This is Africa Pty Ltd acts as an agent for nib and not as your agent. This is Africa Pty Ltd cannot give advice about nib products, and any factual information provided is not intended to imply a recommendation or opinion about nib products. Before you buy, please read the Product Disclosure Statement, Financial Services Guide and Target Market Determination (TMD) available from us. If you have a complaint about a nib product, see the Product Disclosure Statement for the complaints process. This insurance is underwritten by Pacific International Insurance Pty Ltd, ABN 83 169 311 193.
